add doc for v5.1: Deploy -> Operate TiKV (#232)
tikv/website: content/docs/5.1/deploy/operate/upgrade.md

---
title: Upgrade
description: Learn how to upgrade TiKV using TiUP
menu:
    "5.1":
        parent: Operate TiKV
        weight: 1
---

This document is targeted for users who want to upgrade from TiKV 4.0 versions to TiKV 5.0 versions, or from TiKV 5.0 to a later version.

## Preparations

This section introduces the preparation works needed before upgrading your TiKV cluster, including upgrading TiUP and the TiUP Cluster component.

### Step 1: Upgrade TiUP

> Before upgrading your TiKV cluster, you first need to upgrade TiUP.

Reviewer: why do the users need to upgrade tiup firstly before upgrading a tikv cluster?

Author: TiKV's new feature may not be supported by the old version TiUP.

Author: It's recommended by TiUP experts.

1. Upgrade the TiUP version. It is recommended that the TiUP version is `1.4.0` or later.

    ```bash
    tiup update --self
    tiup --version
    ```

2. Upgrade the TiUP Cluster version. It is recommended that the TiUP Cluster version is `1.4.0` or later.

    ```bash
    tiup update cluster
    tiup cluster --version
    ```

### Step 2: Edit TiUP topology configuration file

{{< info >}}
Skip this step if one of the following situations applies:

+ You have not modified the configuration parameters of the original cluster. Or you have modified the configuration parameters using `tiup cluster` but no more modification is needed.
+ After the upgrade, you want to use v5.0's default parameter values for the unmodified configuration items.
{{< /info >}}

> 1. Enter the `vi` editing mode to edit the topology file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit the topology file:
```

    ```bash
    tiup cluster edit-config <cluster-name>
    ```

2. Refer to the format of [topology](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/blob/release-1.4/embed/templates/examples/topology.example.yaml) configuration template and fill the parameters you want to modify in the `server_configs` section of the topology file.

> 3. After the modification, enter <kbd>:</kbd> + <kbd>w</kbd> + <kbd>q</kbd> to save the change and exit the editing mode. Enter <kbd>Y</kbd> to confirm the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Save the changes and exit the editing mode.
```

Reviewer: 😂 do we really need to tell the audiences how to use vi/vim here?

Author: no
